Add log types section to Security Analytics (#6235)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/log-types.md

---
layout: default
title: Working with log types
parent: Setting up Security Analytics
nav_order: 14
redirect_from: 
   - /security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/custom-log-type/
---

# Working with log types

> Log types represent the different sources of data used for threat detection in Security Analytics. Log types are useful for categorizing or prepopulating [Detection rules]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/detectors-config/) when creating detectors from your source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log types represent the different data sources used for threat detection in Security Analytics. Log types are useful for categorizing or prepopulating [detection rules]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/detectors-config/) when creating detectors from your source.
```

> Log types come from the following sources:

Reviewer: The list items do not describe sources but rather log types, so should this just say something like "Security Analytics supports the following log types:"?

> Log types come from the following sources:

Author: ```suggestion
Security Analytics supports the following log types:
```

> - [Standard log types](#standard-log-types): A list of data sources that Security Analytics automatically preppopulates field mappings and rules for, depending on the data indexed from the source.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Standard log types](#standard-log-types): A list of data sources that Security Analytics automatically prepopulates field mappings and rules for, depending on the data indexed from the source.
```

> - [Custom log types](#creating-custom-log-types): When your data falls outside the [standard log types]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/log-types/), you can create a user-defined log type. For enhanced threat detection, Security Analytics supports the integration of custom log types.

Reviewer: "Falls outside" is a phrasal verb, so let's replace it with something more precise. Maybe something like "When your data cannot be categorized as one of the standard log types"?

> - [Custom log types](#creating-custom-log-types): When your data falls outside the [standard log types]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/log-types/), you can create a user-defined log type. For enhanced threat detection, Security Analytics supports the integration of custom log types.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Custom log types](#creating-custom-log-types): When your data cannot be categorized as one of the [standard log types]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/log-types/), you can create a user-defined log type. For enhanced threat detection, Security Analytics supports the integration of custom log types.
```

To navigate to the **Log types** page, select **Log types** under **Detectors** in the **Security Analytics** navigation menu.

## Page actions

> The main features available from the **Log types** user interface and the actions you can take are shown in the following image. These features are described in the following list. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main **Log types** UI features and actions are shown in the following image. These features are described in the list following the image. 
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/c-log-type.png" alt="The Log types landing page." width="85%">

1. Search **Standard** and **Custom** log types. 

>    - For a list of **Standard** log types, refer to [Supported log types]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/log-types/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For a list of **Standard** log types, see [Supported log types]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/log-types/). 
```

2. Create a [custom log type](#creating-custom-log-types).
3. Select the log type **Name** to open the details page. The **Details** tab is shown by default. This tab includes the log type's ID. You can also select the **Detection rules** tab to show all detection rules associated with the log type.
4. Select the **Category** or **Source** dropdown menu to sort by log type category or source. 

> 5. From the **Actions** column, select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/alerting/trash-can-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="trash can icon"/>{:/} icon to delete a custom log type. (You cannot delete a standard OpenSearch-defined log type.) Then follow the prompts to confirm and delete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. From the **Actions** column, select the {::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/alerting/trash-can-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="trash can icon"/>{:/} icon to delete a custom log type (you cannot delete a standard OpenSearch-defined log type). Then follow the prompts to confirm and delete it.
```

## Standard log types

> As of OpenSearch 2.11, all standard log types are grouped by the following categories to help select, filter, and search the log types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of OpenSearch 2.11, all standard log types are grouped by the following categories:
```

> - **Access Management** includes [AD/LDAP]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/ad-ldap/) , [Apache Access]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/apache-access/), and [Okta](({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/okta/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Access Management** includes [AD/LDAP]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/ad-ldap/), [Apache Access]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/apache-access/), and [Okta](({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/okta/).
```

> - **Access Management** includes [AD/LDAP]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/ad-ldap/) , [Apache Access]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/apache-access/), and [Okta](({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/okta/).

Author: I kept these out of code format to make them more searchable and SEO friendly.

- **Applications** includes [GitHub]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/github/), [Google Workspace]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/gworkspace/), and [Microsoft 365]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/m365/).

> - **Cloud Services** includes [Azure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/azure/), [AWS CloudTrail]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/cloudtrail/), and [Amazon S3]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/s3/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Cloud Services** includes [Azure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/azure/), [AWS CloudTrail]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/cloudtrail/), and [Amazon S3]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/s3/).
```

> - **Network Activity** includes [DNS]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/dns/), [Network]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/network/), [NetFlow]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/netflow/) and [VPC Flow]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/vpc/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Network Activity** includes [DNS]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/dns/), [Network]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/network/), [NetFlow]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/netflow/), and [VPC Flow]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/vpc/).
```

- **Security** includes [WAF]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/waf/).
- **System Activity** includes [Linux]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/linux/) and [Windows]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/windows/).

> - **Other** accounts for log types that are not under a specific category. For more information, refer to [Other log types]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/other/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Other** includes accounts for log types that are not contained in a specific category. For more information, refer to [Other log types]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/log-types-reference/other/).
```

## Creating custom log types

> When connecting to a data source not supported by the standard log type, create a custom log type by following these steps: 

Reviewer: "a" standard log type?

> 1. From the OpenSearch Dashboards, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Security Analytics**, and then select **Detectors** > **Log types**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In OpenSearch Dashboards, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Security Analytics**, and then select **Detectors** > **Log types**.
```

> 1. From the dashboard, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Security Analytics**, and then select **Detectors** > **Log types**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. From the OpenSearch Dashboards, select **OpenSearch Plugins** > **Security Analytics**, and then select **Detectors** > **Log types**.
```

1. Select **Create log type**.
1. Enter a name and, optionally, a description for the log type.
   
   The log type name supports characters a--z (lowercase), 0--9, hyphens, and underscores.
   {: .note }
   

> 1. Select a category. The categories are listed in [Supported log types]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/log-types/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select a category. The categories are listed in the [Supported log types]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/log-types/) documentation.
```

1. Select **Create log type** in the lower-right corner of the screen. The screen returns to the **Log types** page. The new log type appears in the list. Note that the source for the new log type indicates **Custom**.

## About field mappings

> The log type specified when creating detectors determines which fields are available for mapping. For example, when **Windows logs** is selected, this parameter and the specific detection rules determine the list of detection field names available for the mapping. Similarly, the selected data source determines the list of log source field names that are available for the mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The log type specified when creating a detector determines which fields are available for mapping. For example, when **Windows logs** is selected, this parameter and the specific detection rules determine the list of detection field names available for the mapping. Similarly, the selected data source determines the list of log source field names that are available for the mapping.
```

> Security Analytics uses prepackaged Sigma rules for detector creation. It can automatically map important fields of a particular log type with the relevant fields in Sigma rules. In the **Field Mappings** section for detector creation is a view of fields that have been mapped automatically. From this view, you can customize, change, or add new field mappings. When a detector includes customized rules, you can manually map detector rule field names to log source field names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security Analytics uses prepackaged Sigma rules for detector creation. It can automatically map important fields of a particular log type to the relevant fields in Sigma rules. The **Field Mappings** section shows fields that have been mapped automatically. In this section, you can customize, change, or add new field mappings. When a detector includes customized rules, you can manually map detector rule field names to log source field names.
```

> Security Analytics uses prepackaged Sigma rules for detector creation. It can automatically map important fields of a particular log type with the relevant fields in Sigma rules. In the **Field Mappings** section for [detector creation](<insert-missing-link>) is a view of fields that have been mapped automatically. From this view, you can customize, change, or add new field mappings. When a detector includes customized rules, you can manually map detector rule field names to log source field names.

Author: ```suggestion
Security Analytics uses prepackaged Sigma rules for detector creation. It can automatically map important fields of a particular log type with the relevant fields in Sigma rules. In the **Field Mappings** section for detector creation is a view of fields that have been mapped automatically. From this view, you can customize, change, or add new field mappings. When a detector includes customized rules, you can manually map detector rule field names to log source field names.
```

> Security Analytics uses prepackaged Sigma rules for detector creation. It can automatically map important fields for a specific log type to the corresponding fields in the Sigma rules. The **Field Mappings** section when [creating detectors]() presents a view of automatically mapped fields while also providing the option to customize, change, or add new field mappings. When a detector includes customized rules, you can follow this step to manually map detector rule field names to log source field names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Security Analytics uses prepackaged Sigma rules for detector creation. It can automatically map important fields of a particular log type with the relevant fields in Sigma rules. In the **Field Mappings** section for [detector creation](<insert-missing-link>) is a view of fields that have been mapped automatically. From this view, you can customize, change, or add new field mappings. When a detector includes customized rules, you can follow this step to manually map detector rule field names to log source field names.
```

Reviewer 2: What step are you referring to? Do you mean that the user can use the Field Mappings view to manually map? If so, rewrite to clarify.

> Because the system can automatically map field names, manually mapping the fields when `ecs` fields exist in your document is optional. Detector rules, however, require certain mappings in order to operate. These mapping depend on the detector rule. The more fields that can be mapped between detector fields and log source fields, the greater the accuracy of generated findings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the system can automatically map field names, it is optional to manually map the fields when `ecs` fields exist in a document. Detector rules, however, require certain mappings in order to operate. These mapping depend on the detector rule. The more fields that can be mapped between detector fields and log source fields, the greater the accuracy of generated findings.
```

> ## Log type API

Reviewer: "APIs" (plural)?

> ## Log type API

Author: ```suggestion
## Log type APIs
```

> Because the system has the ability to automatically map field names, manually mapping the fields when ECS fields already exist in your document is optional. However, detector rules require some mappings in order to operate, depending on the detector rule. The more fields that can be mapped between detector fields and log source fields, the greater the accuracy of generated findings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the system can automatically map field names, manually mapping the fields when `ecs` fields exist in your document is optional. Detector rules, however, require certain mappings in order to operate. These mapping depend on the detector rule. The more fields that can be mapped between detector fields and log source fields, the greater the accuracy of generated findings.
```

> To perform operations for custom log types using the REST API. For more information, refer to the [Log type APIs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/api-tools/log-type-api/) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform custom log type operations using the REST API. For more information, refer to the [Log type APIs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/api-tools/log-type-api/) documentation.
```

> To perform operations for custom log types using the REST API. For more information, refer to the [Log type APIs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/api-tools/log-type-api/) documentation.

Reviewer: Can we make the first sentence a complete one?

> To perform operations for custom log types using the REST API, see [Log type APIs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/api-tools/log-type-api/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To perform operations for custom log types using the REST API. For more information, refer to the [Log type APIs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/api-tools/log-type-api/) documentation.
```
